[Music]
wouldn't it be amazing to see the
tallest mountain on the planet from an
airplane window just imagine yourself
nestled in your seat sipping on a coffee
and admiring that snow-covered mountain
peak the only problem is that planes
don't fly over Mount Everest or the
Himalayan range for that matter but why
to answer this troubling question let's
imagine a scheduled commercial flight
which out of the blue decides to fly
over the Himalayas at first the flight
is going smoothly
the plane reaches its usual cruising
altitude of 35,000 feet and is traveling
at a speed of about 550 miles per hour
soon the pilots see a range of tall
mountains straight ahead with one peak
standing out among the rest it's the
world's famous Everest the highest
mountain above sea level on the whole
planet its height is a monstrous 29,000
feet and it keeps growing by 1/10 of an
inch every year see there it goes
anyway the pilots aren't even a bit
concerned about having to fly over the
peak after all the plane has more than
6,000 feet to spare but once the
aircraft has reached Everest and is
moving over it
the pilots realize they shouldn't have
been so careless because that's when
everything goes awry suddenly everybody
on board hears a loud bang and the
terrified cockpit crew immediately
recognizes the sign of sudden
decompression there might have been a
problem with the pressurization system
one of the doors could have been sealed
incorrectly or there could have been a
crack in a window or the fuselage
whatever the reason for the emergency
the crew has to react immediately
passengers on this plane we're paying
attention to the preflight safety
demonstration before the plane took off
that's why they immediately put oxygen
masks over their mouths and nose and try
to keep calm the cockpit crew on the
other hand is close to panic the problem
is that there isn't as much oxygen in
your mask as you might think
it usually lasts for no more than 15 to
20 minutes and you can probably imagine
the consequences of running out of
oxygen at an al
35,000 feet spoiler it's not good that's
why the pilots must make the plane drop
down to 10,000 feet where the passengers
will be able to breathe without using
oxygen masks by the plane is still
flying over the Himalayas and there's no
way it could drop so low I'd better just
end the story right now before something
terrible happens to our passenger jet
and all the travelers inside I think you
got the idea but you should know that
the inability to lower the plane in the
case of rapid decompression isn't the
only thing preventing aircraft from
flying over Everest one of the reasons
planes have such an impressive cruising
altitude is that it lets pilots have
some room for error it means that if
something goes wrong the captain can
glide the aircraft while trying to fix
the problem but you can't do much if you
have a mere 6,000 feet to spare right on
top of that if an emergency landing is
unavoidable pilots simply won't be able
to find an easily accessible airport
nearby admittedly Katmandu can deal with
a jet but this Airport only has one
runway and doesn't have an instrumental
landing system and finally if you've
ever flown over the mountains you
probably know that turbulence above them
is nothing but nasty winds moving over
mountain ranges at high speeds creates
so-called Mountain waves which can turn
any ride into a rough one
and while turbulence isn't dangerous per
se airlines still try to plan their
route surround mountainous areas if
possible and speaking of the Himalayas
the turbulence there is so bad that it's
almost impossible for commercial
airplanes to fly over that region now
have you ever experienced severe
turbulence while flying over the
mountains share your stories in the
comments section below
anyway if you take into consideration
all these factors it becomes crystal
clear why is both safer and easier for
airplanes to avoid the Himalayas
altogether but this mountainous region
isn't the only place pilots dislike
how about I tell you about some of the
most dangerous airports in the world
those who decide to visit Mount Everest
usually arrive at the Lukla Airport in
Nepal but not all the visitors know that
this Airport is one of the world's
trickiest pilots find it extremely
difficult to land there because the
airport is nestled between high
mountains on top of that it has a
terrifyingly short runway and since the
terminal building itself has no lights
or electric power it's impossible to
land there if the conditions aren't
perfect another Airport that will chill
your blood is also situated in the
mountains it's Tong Canton Airport in
Tegucigalpa Honduras due to a short
approach and difficult terrain planes
must make a lightning-fast 45-degree
Bank turn during the descent after this
the aircraft must drop an altitude
immediately otherwise they might scrape
the hills right underneath there were
only eight pilots in the world who are
qualified to land at però Airport in
Bhutan Himalayan mountains the runway of
the airport is a mere 6500 feet long and
is surrounded by 18,000 foot tall Peaks
planes have to make an extremely quick
descent to approach the airstrip safely
hence the airport's high ranking among
the most dangerous airports of the world
landing at the airport on the Portuguese
island madeira remains one of the most
treacherous feats in aviation even after
its runway was renovated the thing is
that the landing strip of this Airport
is located right on the shore of the
ocean between steep cliffs originally
the runway was only 5,000 250 feet after
being extended several times the
airstrip of Madeira Airport is now 9,000
124 feet but it's not your usual runway
because of the lack of space engineers
suggested building a series of runway
platforms on an artificial island it was
constructed right in the ocean with 180
columns holding it up
the runway of narsarsuaq Airport in
Greenland is constantly covered with ice
on top of that the airstrip itself is
only about six thousand feet long but
that's not all the weather in that
region is always stormy which creates
severe turbulence and adds to low
visibility violent winds hit the plane
and this along with the icy airstrip can
easily direct the aircraft off-course
what's even more there's an active
volcano nearby it often erupts sending
clouds of perilous ash in the air if it
gets inside the engines it can destroy
them which could lead to a crash no
wonder both airplane crews and
passengers dread landing at this Airport
whew sounds like fine huh there are no
mountains around your broader
international airport the runway isn't
that short and in general it's not
particularly hard for a plane to land
there but there is one unique feature
which sets this airport apart and makes
it totally unique the main street of
that area
Winston Churchill Avenue intersects the
runway that's why the road must be
closed every time a plane is going to
land or takeoff of course there's a
stoplight on the road that informs cars
when it's time to stop but still there
have been several close calls during the
airport's history gee I wonder if
there's a stoplight for the planes too
hey if you ever go to st. Martin island
in the Caribbean you're likely to be
completely spittin with it's Princess
Juliana Airport it's one of the most
famous airports in the world thanks to a
public beach located right before the
runway
however landing aircraft create
deafening noise and powerful gusts of
wind which blows sand towards beachgoers
but that's not what the pilots have to
worry about cockpit crews have another
problem on their hands being just 7,000
150 feet long the airstrip is too short
for large aircraft to feel comfortable
while landing normally they require at
least 8200 feet so they just what throw
out an anchor to stop huh I'd pay to see
that
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share
with a friend
and here are some other videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life
you